>> ERICH VON DANIKEN: We
have all heard of the myths
and the legends of our history.
But is there another story?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the Bible, we
have Ezekiel, who
was brought up into the space.
In the apocryphal text, we
have Abraham who was up there.
In the Book of
Enoch, we had Enoch
who clearly described
he was there
among the guardians of the sky.
Enoch even learns
the language of them.
So I gave just four examples.
The same situations
happen in old India.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There was one of the young men.
His name was Arjuna.
Later he became a king.
The extraterrestrials,
like Ezekiel, like Enoch,
they took Arjuna up to the sky.
They bring him up there.
Arjuna-- again, like
Enoch-- learns the language
of the extraterrestrials.
He describes that he was
there for many years.
He even realized that the
extraterrestrials had a war.
They were not of
the same opinion.
Some of them were
fighting against the other
because some of them
want to help the humans
or did not want to
help, or they want
to take out our other natural
sources, like gold, et cetera.
And some of them
were against it.
So they had the war in space.
Arjuna realized that one
of these flying machines,
some lightnings are coming out.
Two of the cities out there
were completely destroyed,
and only one survived.
Later, Arjuna comes
back to Earth.
And while he is on Earth, he of
course describes to his people
what he has seen.
And this was written down.
You find the writing
in the Vedas.
You find this passage in the
fifth book of the Mahabharata.
The Mahabharata is composed
of many, many books.
It's the biggest
mythology of the world
in India, the Mahabharata.
And in the fifth book,
you'll find this description.
Arjuna says he was
brought up there.
He even gives the
name of the pilot.
The pilot's name
was [? Matali. ?]
And he says, up there
I saw a gigantic city.
It was composed of hundreds of
[? bulls. ?] So [? bulls-- ?]
one [? bull ?] in another
[? bull. ?] All this together
made this gigantic city.
And there were three of these
cities in orbit of the Earth.
And they surrounded the Earth--
the same thing which Enoch
is telling in another story.
Just this time, it's
the old Indian stuff.
Enoch is telling
about the mutiny.
He's telling about destruction.
Arjuna, this time in India,
is telling about destruction,
about the mutiny, that some
of these cities in the sky
were destroyed--
not by humans, by themselves.
They had a war.
And here we come again
to the old situation.
A war in heaven?
If heaven would be
this place of happiness
because you are united with
God, then there is no war.
The word "heaven" is
wrongly translated.
We must change the word
"heaven" into "space."
Because there were
wars in heaven.
There were different
humans who were up there.
They were brought back to
Earth with more knowledge
than before.
Heaven was space.
A war in space is possible.
That happened in
many old cultures.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We have figures like angels.
An angel, in our
normal knowledge,
is a being, a messenger coming
from God, down from the sky.
We represent angels with wings,
with halos around their head.
But these angels
were not fine guys.
These angels had sex
with some humans.
These angels were no spirits.
These angels had war among each
other described in other texts.
So we must change the
word "angel" into the word
"extraterrestrial."
And an archangel is one
of the leaders of one
of the groups of the
extraterrestrials.
We must change
only about 10 words
in the old so-called
holy writings,
and we change the
complete meaning.
And exactly this takes
now place in our time.
We have translations from
the Vedas in ancient India,
made with our modern knowledge,
made by Professor Dr. Dileep
Kanjilal.
"Flying Machines
in Ancient India."
This is a scientific work.
It's not just stupid fantasy.
Every phrase is proven
with every figure,
like in the Bible.
We have description.
Then we have a
doctor in Sumerology.
His name is Dr. [? Haman ?]
[? Burgat. ?] [? Burgat ?]
finally started to
translate an old text.
The text is called "The
Temporal Wall of Enheduanna."
Enheduanna was the high priest.
She was the daughter
of Sargon I--
Sargon, Sumerian king.
So about 2,300 BC.
Dr. [? Burgat ?] translated
the writings of Enheduanna,
of the high priest.
And he clearly, absolutely,
in his two books,
which are on the
market now, says
this is extraterrestrial being.
This has nothing to
do with God, nothing
to do with natural catastrophes
like storms or earthquakes.
This is not science fiction.
We can prove it, in the
meantime, absolutely clear.
Enheduanna described it.
So it's time.
Our time is ripe.
We have new translations
of the old texts.
We should continue.
In the past, we translated
all this wrong--
not because we were bad guys.
Not because we are stupid, or
not because of a conspiracy.
Our fathers, our
professors in the past,
two generations ago, they
were brilliant persons.
But they had not our knowledge.
150 years ago, there
was nothing like flying.
There was nothing
like space travel.
In the meantime, we
have this object.
In the meantime, we know
it is possible to travel
from star to star.
In the meantime, we have the
knowledge about genetics,
that it is possible to
create a human race out
of the tree of the family.
So we know the
situation has changed.
This spirit of time has changed.
And we are the one generation.
Now, with our scientific
knowledge, we could go on
and it would be easily
to find the [INAUDIBLE],,
the final proof, for
extraterrestrials.
We could do it today.
We could go in orbit
with the space shuttle,
and we could look for an
extraterrestrial object,
a time capsule up there.
We will find it.
We just have to do it.
That's why we have to
change the spirit of time.
We must look at all these things
with our modern knowledge.
And then we come
to another answer.
And the answer is beautiful.
Concerning our past, we
know where we come from.
And concerning our
future, we know
we are part of a family
of extraterrestrials.
And we don't have to
be afraid of them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You see these virgin births.
They are part of antiquity.
These virgin births,
they existed long
before Christianity.
Many of the old figures
had virgin birth.
The best example in
this connection is Noah.
Some 50 years ago, one of the
Dead Sea Scrolls were found,
and one of the scrolls had
the name "The Lamech Scroll."
You have to understand
what this is.
Lamech was a shepherd, and
obviously a rich shepherd.
He had many hundreds
of thousands of sheeps.
And so he was away from his home
tents, sometimes for months.
One day he came back to his
home tents, and his wife--
her name was Batanash-- had
just given birth to a boy.
Lamech looks at his boy and
says, this is not my boy.
It is absolutely impossible
because of the months
I was away.
I cannot have done this.
And the boy looks completely
different to the other children
I have already.
Not the same skin,
the same eyes.
But his wife with
the name of Batanash
swears and says, dear Father
Lamech, I really promise you
no one has touched me sexually.
She even says no of the other
shepherds has touched me.
None of the soldiers--
no one has touched me.
And Lamech cannot
understand this.
The boy is finally here.
But on the other hand, he
loves his wife, Batanash.
So Lamech goes to
his father, which
is the biblical
Methusaleh, and tells him
the story about the son,
the new boy in the family.
And he says, I had
no sex with her,
and my wife said she
had no sex with no one.
So Methusaleh, again, does
not know a final answer
and goes to his father,
which is no one else
than the biblical
Enoch, the same Enoch
who was in sky up there and
who learned the language
of the extraterrestrials.
Enoch says to his
son Methusaleh,
go to your son Lamech.
Tell him Lamech should
accept this boy as his own.
Learn him the language.
Give him the best education.
Because the guardians
of the sky have
decided to destroy all flesh
on Earth by a gigantic flood.
But this boy, the son
here, should be the father
of the future generation.
Give him the name of Noah.
So we learn from this that Noah
was artificially inseminated.
Noah's mother, Batanash, was
artificially inseminated.
Now we are all the
offspring of Noah.
So in reality, we all have
extraterrestrial genes in us.
And because the time
is right, our brain
learns slowly that
this makes sense.
A hundred years ago, we
could have not discussed
such a hypothesis.
It's all garbage a
hundred years ago.
In the meantime,
our brain is ready.
Now we can say, come on.
We can prove that Batanash
has given birth to a boy,
but this was an
artificial insemination.
It was not made by a sexual act.
And we are the
offsprings of Noah.
So we are all part of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[WAVES CRASHING]
The flood was created on
purpose by extraterrestrials.
Noah's ark was a
sort of container,
and the container
survived the flood.
And in this container,
we had probably
the seeds of all kinds of
plants, and also of all kinds
of animals--
including us, the humans.
We are the offsprings of
Noah, and Noah was the product
of an artificial insemination.
[WIND HOWLING]
In Norway, all the seeds of
every tree, of every plant,
of every animal is all
there, stored in ice today.
You see the story of Noah.
You'll find the same story again
in the Epic of Gilgamesh epoch,
the Sumerians.
And there, it is the version--
the Sumerian version is older
than the biblical version.
And the funny thing is, in the
Sumerian version, of course,
the survivor is not called Noah.
He's called Utnapishtim.
And Utnapishtim does
not take animals
of every sort into his ship, but
artists, artisans, and workers
of every kind.
Because mankind has
survived, and the knowledge
of our forefathers
had to survive, too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the Bible, you only find
two phrases about Enoch.
It says that Enoch was
the seventh patriarch
before the great
flood, and that Enoch
was the first human who left
our planet in a fiery chariot.
That's in the Bible.
Enoch was the first man.
Later comes Elijah.
But long before--
Enoch.
And Enoch was the
seventh patriarch--
which is true, because we
have other translations,
like the Dead Sea
Scrolls, Lamech,
where we know that Enoch
was the seventh patriarch.
So how do we know Enoch,
about the Book of Enoch?
About 170 years ago,
in the meantime,
a British man was in Abyssinia.
And there he went to a
convent, and he was there
for 30 years in a convent.
He learned the
language of the locals.
And in the old library, he found
the book, the Book of Enoch.
He knew the name of
Enoch from the Bible.
He knew that Enoch was
the first man who left
the planet in a fire chariot.
But he didn't knew
the book of Enoch.
The Book of Enoch, again, is
written in the first person,
eyewitness, which is very
important-- not just told
in the third person.
And Enoch says in his
book, it was evening.
The society of his village,
they all wanted to sleep.
Then they heard the
noise in the sky.
Everybody ran out and
looked to the sky,
and they saw an
object coming down.
They were afraid, the society,
the people of the village.
Then they saw two beings in
glittering clothes coming close
to the group of locals.
They all cried and ran away,
except Enoch stood there.
He says, I was 12
years old at that time.
When the two beings are
approximately two or three
meters away from him,
he also become afraid
and he fell on the ground.
He clearly said, I was lying
on the ground with my nose--
I was respiring the
dust of the Earth.
Of a sudden, some
of the stranger
took the boy, put
him on his feet.
And Enoch says,
there were two beings
which I never saw on Earth.
Again, the two extraterrestrials
speak the language of Enoch.
And one of them says,
"Don't be afraid, human.
Don't be afraid."
Which is important-- they
say, "Don't be afraid, human."
They do not say, "Don't
be afraid, Enoch."
If it would have been God--
God knows everything.
God would have known
the name of the boy.
They don't know.
"Human, don't be afraid.
We won't harm you," they say.
They finally say, "If you
wish, boy, 12-year-old, you
can come with us,
and we will teach you
a lot of things which are
important for your society."
Enoch has courage.
He says yes.
He goes up there.
He goes with these two
strangers, extraterrestrials.
And only after a few
steps, one of the strangers
says to Enoch, "Human,
you smell terribly.
You stink."
And then they order him that
he put all his clothes up.
Completely naked, he has
to jump into a river, which
is obviously just there.
Then he comes up
out of the river.
And when he's dry,
one of the strangers
gives him a cream,
a sort of cream.
Enoch writes all this.
He gave me a cream
and he ordered
me to put this cream
all over my body,
including my hair,
my face, all over.
Enoch even smells on
his skin and says,
"I smelled like ambrosia,
honey, and whatever."
Then one of the strangers
gave him clothes,
some sort of clothes--
the same clothes which
they have on-- glittering.
Enoch, the young boy, does
not know what to do with it.
One of the stranger
explains him,
how he had to put
these trousers on.
He looks down at
him and he says,
"And look, I look
like one of them."
Of course he's in
the same clothes now.
Then he goes up.
Similar to Abraham, he's
grown over the Earth.
Up there, he sees
gigantic crystals.
He sees crystals
glittering and so.
Doors opened automatically.
Other doors closed again.
First they come
into a garden, where
Enoch says there were strange
flowers, strange vegetables,
which I never saw on Earth.
Then they come in
a big round room.
In the center of
room is a throne.
And on the throne, the
Highest is sitting.
Now, when these
three come inside--
two of his own men and
Enoch, altogether three--
come in the room, the Highest
stands up from his throne,
goes a few steps to
Enoch, shakes his hand,
and tell him, welcome.
Whatever I explain
now here is truly
part of the Book of Enoch, but
not the way I told it here.
Why not?
Our professors 150 years
ago, 160 years ago,
had no idea of flying,
et cetera, fully.
They had to use the
word of their time.
They read the text
and they believed
some ancients have come down.
They took a human
into the heaven.
So I said two
extraterrestrials came.
In the original Enoch, you
read two angels have come down.
Now I said they said,
"Human, you are stinking."
That's written in
the Book of Enoch.
And they put them
into the water.
In the original
Enoch, they said,
"Now he was put into the
water to baptize him."
Ridiculous, before
the great flood.
There was no baptism, et cetera.
Then he receives the cream.
In my eyes, he was
simply disinfected.
In the religious
version, it says,
now he reached the
cream of a high priest.
And then they give him these
clothes, glittering clothes.
In my eyes, he receives the
same overall which they have
before they go up to space.
In the religious
translation, they said, now
he's dressed as a high priest.
So we made the translation
completely wrong.
Enoch finally is up
there and he comes
to this garden with different
plants and smells and colors.
In religious version,
they say Enoch now
is walking to the paradise,
or to the heavenly garden
of the heaven.
In my eyes, it was
simply a plantation.
Because in an
extraterrestrial spaceship,
you have to grow up
your own vegetable.
Enoch doesn't know this.
Finally, he comes
in the big room
with the throne in the center.
In the religious
version, they say
now Enoch is standing
in the highest heaven,
standing before the throne
of the Almighty God--
which is absolutely nonsense,
because the real Almighty God,
even if he would have
a throne and sit there,
would never stand up,
shake hands with human,
and welcome him in heaven.
We made all these
translations wrong.
Not because we were stupid--
simply because it was the
time which was different.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
About 1,800 years ago, there
were thousands and thousands
of sheets of parchments,
writing of old time.
And then the so-called fathers
of the church came together
and they simply
could not understand
what this writing was.
So some of the writing,
they put on one part.
And other writings which
they couldn't understand,
they put on the other part.
And often some of these
writings of the other part
are not complete.
For example, in
the Book of Enoch,
we have stories which
definitely are missing.
So from one part, they
made out a book which
later is called the Holy Bible.
And from the other
part, it was separated
because it was not
complete and because they
couldn't understand it.
And today they are
called apocryphic texts.
So the Book of Enoch is
part of the apocryphic text.
[SINGING IN LATIN]
The Vatican is definitely
hiding knowledge about the ETs.
In my eyes, they must know
about the extraterrestrials.
They have the writings
in the Vaticanic Library.
And they are very clever.
You see, the
Jesuits among them--
I was educated for six years
in a Catholic high school led
by the Jesuits.
They are brilliant people.
They are not stupid.
Most of them have at least one
doctorate degree, some of them
two or three.
Brilliant people.
They know exactly
what was going on.
But again, the time is not ripe.
They cannot come out to the
public and say the angels were,
in reality, extraterrestrials.
Enoch was not in heaven.
Enoch was in a spaceship.
The time is not ripe for this.
That's why we have to
change the spirit of time.
The spirit of time is the
knowledge of a certain time.
We know today of aircraft.
We know today that genetical
changes are possible.
We know today that space
traveling would be possible.
We know today that there are
different dimensions out there.
Our forefathers did
not know of this.
Their spirit of time was
different than our spirit
of time.
Because of our knowledge, the
spirit of time has changed.
And we live in a
fascinating time.
Just for me, it all
goes much too slow.
Because some societies-- like
the church is another society--
they still try to push
back the spirit of time.
They do not want
that the human race
knows too much about the past.
Because they would
lose their power.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, in the meantime,
I'm 82 years old,
and I am afraid that in my
lifetime, it will not happen.
I would be very happy
it would happen.
But in the lifetime of
the young generations,
of our boys and girls of today,
it will definitely happen.
In the lifetime of our boys
and girls-- and, I suggest,
within the next 10 years,
and that's a long--
we will have official contact
with extraterrestrials.
Then our knowledge of the
past, our belief of the past,
our religion, simply crashes.
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[MUSIC PLAYING]